[processor/transform] introduce aggregate_on_attribute_value function for metrics (#33423)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib: processor/transformprocessor/README.md

To aggregate only using a specified set of attributes, you can use `keep_matching_keys`.

### aggregate_on_attribute_value

`aggregate_on_attribute_value(function, attribute, values, newValue)`

> The `aggregate_on_attribute_value` function aggreates all datapoints in the metric containing the attribute `attribute` with one of the values present in the `values` parameter. `function` is a case-sensitive string that represents the aggregation function.

Reviewer: `aggreates` -> `aggregates`

(4th word in the sentence)

> The `aggregate_on_attribute_value` function aggreates all datapoints in the metric containing the attribute `attribute` with one of the values present in the `values` parameter. `function` is a case-sensitive string that represents the aggregation function.

Author: ```suggestion
The `aggregate_on_attribute_value` function aggregates all datapoints in the metric containing the attribute `attribute` with one of the values present in the `values` parameter. `function` is a case-sensitive string that represents the aggregation function.
```

> The `aggregate_on_attribute_value` function aggregates all datapoints in the metric containing the attribute `attribute` with one of the values present in the `values` parameter. `function` is a case-sensitive string that represents the aggregation function.
> 
> Firstly, `attribute` values with one of the values present in `values` are substituted by `newValue` for all datapoints. Afterwards all datapoints are aggregated depending on the attributes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `aggregate_on_attribute_value` function aggregates all datapoints in the metric containing the attribute `attribute` with one of the values present in the `values` into a single datapoint where the attribute has the value `newValue`. `function` is a case-sensitive string that represents the aggregation function.
```

I think we could make this a bit more concise by just explaining how the function uses the parameters to operate on the metric.

> 
> The `aggregate_on_attribute_value` function fetches all datapoints in the metric, which have the attribute `attribute` present with one of the values speficied in `values` and substitutes these values with `newValue`. Afterwards all datapoints are aggregated depending on the attributes.

Author: ```suggestion
```

The following metric types can be aggregated:

- sum
- gauge
- histogram
- exponential histogram

Supported aggregation functions are:

- sum
- max
- min
- mean
- median
- count

**NOTE:** Only the `sum` agregation function is supported for histogram and exponential histogram datatypes.

Examples:

> - `aggregate_on_attribute_value(sum, attr1, [val1, val2], new_val) where name == "system.memory.usage`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `aggregate_on_attribute_value("sum", "attr1", ["val1", "val2"], "new_val") where name == "system.memory.usage"`
```

The `aggregate_on_attribute_value` function can also be used in conjunction with 
[keep_matching_keys](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs#keep_matching_keys) or
[delete_matching_keys](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs#delete_matching_keys).

For example, to remove attribute keys matching a regex and aggregate the metrics on the remaining attributes, you can perform the following statement sequence:

```yaml
statements:
   - delete_matching_keys(attributes, "(?i).*myRegex.*") where name == "system.memory.usage"

>    - aggregate_on_attribute_value(sum, attr1, [val1, val2], new_val) where name == "system.memory.usage"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - aggregate_on_attribute_value("sum", "attr1", ["val1", "val2"], "new_val") where name == "system.memory.usage"
```
